Background & Interest 

My undergraduate tenure at McGill University was a hybrid of agricultural studies and urban systems geography, allowing both fieldwork opportunities and practical geospatial lab analysis. My capstone project introduced me to collaborative open data initiatives for farmers in Eastern Quebec, where I worked with myriad stakeholders to bridge technological gaps. That introduction stuck with me and brought me to the iSchool at the University of Washington to pursue a career in librarianship, specializing in data science. My educational background and diverse skillset meshes well with WAMAS’ values and mission to provide Washington state with accurate, accessible geographic data. A project of this scale will allow me to gain experience with systems analysis and the development of professional training systems. This will permit me to make vital real-world connections between familiar but abstract data management concepts I have encountered in class. I am a comfortable presenter, reliable teammate, and routinely assess my own habits for efficiency. This opportunity would exercise my known skills while presenting a learning curve, expanding my horizons and connections. 

Possibly Helpful Resources:

https://opendri.org/wp-content/uploads/2016/05/OpenDRI-Policy-Note.pdf
Open Data for Resilience: Policy Note and Principles
Despite specifically addressing Disaster Relief plans, the concept can overlap with geo-coding. The publication it offers a model for information sharing across government and the private sector, emphasizing the need for models that are easily communicated and dynamic. Suggested further reading is useful for exploring open source licenses and user-centered design instruction. 

http://castatelibrary.github.io/opendata/
CSL Open Government Data
According to *Library Journal*, Anne Neville of the California State Library was one of the original grant recipients for the “Data Equity for Main Street: Bringing Open Data Home Through Local Libraries” grant. I followed up to try and determine what CSL has already produced. This document offers advice through successes and failures in plain language, and may be a useful resource when constructing instructional tools.  


Questions:

In addition to WA’s Geospatial Data Management Policy, what other formal guidelines should I be familiar with?

Software systems analysis is an identified weak spot in my existing skillset. Can you recommend any resources I can use to familiarize myself with best practices?
 
